And now to another in our
"Brief but Spectacular Series".
Tonight, we hear
from Georgina Kleege.
She's a lecturer in the English
department at the University
of California, Berkeley.
Her forthcoming book is "More
Than Meets the Eye: What
Blindness Brings to Art."
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
GEORGINA KLEEGE, LECTURER,
UC BERKELEY DEPARTMENT
OF ENGLISH: It's a common
experience for people
with disabilities to feel that
they are being stared at or to
notice they are being stared
at.
And in fact, blind people
can feel that, too, a kind of
collective intake of breath even
if nobody says anything, you can
tell when you attract attention.
I am legally blind, I
became legally blind, I was
diagnosed when I was 11.
I probably lost my vision
gradually over a few years.
I remember feeling that I
wasn't supposed to feel anything
about it, because there wasn't
anything anybody could do.
My complicated relationship
with Helen Keller
came from childhood.
She was held up as this
role model that she
was deaf and blind, but
she was always cheerful
and she did well in school and
you never heard her complain.
I took this very personally.
I took this as a
reproach towards me.
So I hated Helen Keller and I
loved Helen Keller jokes and
I, you know, told them with
relish in the schoolyard.
I started to wonder if I
had been unfair to Helen
Keller when I was a child.
I ended up writing a book
about her, which is a series
of letters by me, to her, and
she doesn't write back
because she's dead.
It's basically me asking
questions about different
moments in her life
and calling her out and
asking her to explain herself.
And so, it was a way for me to
enter her life imaginatively.
I tell my students all the
time that they should tell
their friends not to text while
walking because I am always
bumping into people who
are texting while walking.
And then they make themselves
a hazard to blind people,
because I am counting on all
the other pedestrians to pay
attention, to see me coming
and to get out of my way.
I think there is still
discrimination in
all sorts of arenas.
There's problems with access
to Web sites and electronic
media and so on and so forth,
captioning, audio description.
The technology exists, people
know how to do this, but
it's not as if everything is
made accessible.
The problem is that
people's understanding of
blindness is very limited.
There's the sort of
joke scenario of a blind
person coming to an
intersection and somebody
grabbing their arm and leading
them across the street when
in fact they wanted to go
in a different direction.
That's never happened to me
and I think part of it is jus
that I tend to look like I know
where I'm going.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I
would agree with that.
(LAUGHTER)
KLEEGE: My name is Georgina
Kleege and this is my brief but
spectacular take on blindness.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
WOODRUFF: And we
thank you, Georgina.
And you can watch additional
"Brief but Spectacular"
episodes on our Web site,
pbs.org/newshour/brief.